2024-09-05
==========

Just some housekeeping this morning, fixing up the `makefile` target to merge
the current day and updating the `.gitignore` file to include the MacOS created
`.DS_Store` files. Leaving the branch and notes open in case I record more
things today.

Bret Victor
-----------

While using the google search engine to search for copies of the original Memex
article "As We May Think" by Vannevar Bush published in The Atlantic Magazine.
It turns out that a person with the name Bret Victor also has a copy of this
article at:

https://worrydream.com/refs/Bush_1945_-_As_We_May_Think_(Life_Magazine).pdf

In fact this seems to be a high-quality scan with additional images and period
advertisements. I'll have to ingest this article too, such that I have a copy of
it. Also need to look at the additional material and take some notes on the
advertisements and so on. I have added the article to my list of articles to
ingest.

In any case -- and this is a "trail" -- I do remember a very interesting talk
from the Bret Victor person. All I remembered is that they gave a talk which
was retro-themed, where they pretended it was 1973 and they gave a talk using
slides from an overhead projector. Something I still remember from my school
and early university days. A quick search with the keywords "bret victor
overhead projector" revealed the association:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8pTEmbeENF4

So I have now watched this talk and recommended it to my colleagues. But I wish
to re-watch this talk and take some notes. In fact, I must also find a way to
download this talk and save it in my memex. This would be the first example of
storing something other than a written document. So, two things: firstly, store
the video in a meaningful way and secondly, analyse the video and write down
any thoughts or associations that come to mind.

OK, back to memex jargon... So the trail (associative chain) is:

[trail] Memex --> Bret Victor --> retro themed talk

Now, is it enough to just add that here, can I use `[trail]` to indicate a
trail? Is the trail expressive enough to trigger my own memory? Did I observe
the trail well enough?
